Source	Target	Text
Major Topics	Multidisciplinary Initiatives	Task forces and similar initiatives that produce innovative policies and programs
Major Topics	Vulnerable Populations	"Certain populations face greater adversity and psychosocial stress that can increase risk of developing mental health disorders (http://www.apa.org/topics/health-disparities/stress.pdf). The resultant health disparities must be addressed via a thorough discussion on adverse environments, provision of care, and effective policies. "
Major Topics	Education and Awareness	"Lack of education and social stigma are primary barriers to seeking help. This major topic will explore how institutions educate their community on mental health, distribute and reinforce critical information, integrate it into academics, and foster support from peers. "
Vulnerable Populations	LGBT+	Sexual minorities
Vulnerable Populations	International	Non-US citizens
Vulnerable Populations	Financially Insecure	Students for whom finances are a chronic stressor
Vulnerable Populations	Athletes	Students who participate in athletic sports professionally
Multidisciplinary Initiatives	Joint Allocations Committee	"After the shooting of Scout Schultz in Fall of 2017 student leaders met to determine an appropriate response. The Student Government Association initially suggested the allocation of $500,000 from student fees to hire temporary counselors. The Mental Health Student Coalition argued that this money could be better allocated towards innovative initiatives instead. By funding pilot studies and demonstrating efficacy, it would provide the data necessary to argue for long-term and continued funding of mental health initiatives. The $500,000 from students was matched with $500,000 from administration to establish a $1,000,000 fund for mental health initiatives. Formalization of JAC was established through the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding by the presidents of SGA (Sujay Peramanu, Skanda Prasad) and the president of Georgia Tech (G.P. Bud Peterson). JAC seeks to allocate funds to evidence-based, innovative, and sustainable solutions to demonstrated vulnerabilities of Georgia Tech mental health systems."
Multidisciplinary Initiatives	Path Forward Advisory Group	"After the tragic death of Scout Schultz in September 2017 President G.P. Bud Peterson appointed three action teams [RF3, RF4, RF5] to solicit input from the campus community and prepare a report identifying key issues, and short- and longer-term recommendations. These reports were shared in November 2017 with a newly created advisory group, asked to provide counsel in responding to and prioritizing more than 180 recommendations. From this set of recommendations came 55 action- oriented objectives, grouped into three focus areas: Student and Community Life, Academics, and Health and Well-being. Each of these focus areas or clusters are overseen by two executive sponsors. The grouping was finished in April 2018 and shared with the community in September 2018. Concerns surrounding transparency of the group has since resulted in additional appointment of student advisors to each of the clusters along with the executive sponsors in September 2018. "
Education and Awareness	Education	"Education of incoming students, staff, and faculty"
Education and Awareness	Information Networks	How information on policies and programs are distributed to campus
Education and Awareness	Course Curriculum	Courses that integrate mental health curricula
Education and Awareness	Peer-Support	Groups of peer students that seek to support each other on their mental health journeys
Education	QPR Training	"QPR stands for Question, Persuade, and Refer the 3 simple steps anyone can learn to help prevent suicide. The most widely taught gatekeeper training in the world, QPR is designed to help any and everyone learn how to recognize the warning signs of suicide, offer hope, and help save lives. Participants will learn how to intervene with an individual at-risk, persuade them to get help, and guide them to the appropriate resources. The 2-hour QPR Training at Georgia Tech includes an hour of didactic instruction, followed by role play exercises, and time for questions and discussion. To learn more about the nationally-recognized suicide prevention gatekeeper training program, visit the website http://www.qprinstitute.com. "
Information Networks	Lets Talk	"Lets Talk is a program that provides easy access to informal confidential consultations with counselors. Counselors hold walk-in hours at various sites across campus throughout the week. Speaking with a counselor at Lets Talk can provide insight, solutions, and referrals to other campus resources. It is a drop-in program intended to provide informal consultations. Lets Talk is a particularly valuable program in the context of vulnerable populations, as it allows for vulnerable students to seek help in a low commitment and confidential environment. Specifically, the LGBTQIA vulnerable population benefits greatly from this practice, as there are monthly Lets Talk sessions held in the LGBTQIA Resource Center, along with the regular Clough sessions, which aids in accessibility for that specific population."
Information Networks	Mental Health Student Coalition	"MHSC works at the intersection of student leadership, faculty, clinicians, and administration to align and unify efforts to improve student wellbeing. MHSC can be best thought of as an innovative think tank that seeks to constantly improve mental health. Occasional events such as the Mental Health Summit (discussed in QP8) help to raise awareness and expand accessibility to resources. Members of MHSC are well- connected to higher institutional task forces, boards, and other multidisciplinary initiatives commissioned by administration. MHSC is a fluid and dynamic organization that seeks to address the needs of tomorrow through advocacy work on institutional programs and policies related to student wellbeing. "
Information Networks	Freshman Experience	"Freshman Experience is a living option offered by the Department of Housing and Residence Life. More than 95% of incoming freshmen choose to engage in the Freshman Experience. The program is structured around freshmen living in a dorm with two or more Peer Leaders or Resident Advisors for Freshman Experience. The Peer Leaders are upperclassmen who offer regular programming and receive training in how to handle students with mental illness. An important component for the Freshman Experience is how to be successful both as a student and an individual. Some residence halls contain classrooms that tutors for common freshman courses go to and offer free tutoring services. The Freshman Experience is noted as a distribution network because it is a primary way that incoming students learn about Georgia Tech and what resources, particularly in mental health, are available to them. "
Course Curriculum	GT1000	"GT1000 is a course taken by the majority of freshman to help them acclimate to Tech in a classroom setting with 30 or fewer of their peers. GT1000 is designed to help students succeed in their courses at Tech, offer them a support system, and encourage them to become active members of the community. The course meets weekly for one hour and covers topics such as: team building skills, career exploration, academic success strategies, etc. There are a wide variety of sections within GT1000 and the curriculum has a high variance amongst the sections. For example, a student can take a class with only other students in their major or one that focuses specifically on oration."
Peer-Support	Peer Coaching	"Peer Coach training takes a full semester, meeting weekly for 1.5 hours. Peer Coaches are trained to handle extreme cases, guided by the book Students Helping Students: A Guide for Peer Educators on College Campuses. Each semester, Peer Coaches choose whether to be active. When active, Peer Coaches have no more than 3 consulates, meeting with each for an hour per week. Peer Coaches also must come in to do quality feedback, meeting in a group setting to problem solve and develop coping strategies, led by a member of the counseling center. The Peer Coach responsibility is to empower their consulate to identify a plan of action to move forward."
LGBT+	Safe Space	"Safe Space started in 2001 many years prior to the opening of the LGBTQIA Resource Center. Safe Space is a voluntary training for students, staff, and faculty that want to feel more confident using LGBTQIA terminology, understand the coming out process, and be a supportive point of contact for those struggling with anything LGBTQIA related. Any faculty or staff member can apply to be a facilitator for Safe Space. The training is 4 hours. An extensive amount of information about the specifics of the training is located on the website. http://lgbtqia.gatech.edu/safe-space"
LGBT+	Trans 101	"Trans 101 was started in 2015 through the LGBTQIA Resource Center. Trans 101 is the LGBTQIA Resource Center introductory education program designed to provide participants with the knowledge and skills necessary to support transgender, gender non conforming, and gender questioning individuals at Georgia Tech. The training is 2.5 hours. It is offered to anyone in Georgia Tech community who wants to learn transgender terminology, understand barriers to transgender people on Georgia Tech campus, and understand their own gender identity and how it relates to systems of privilege. Any faculty or staff member can apply to be a facilitator for Trans 101. Since 2015 around 250 students, staff, and faculty have been trained in Trans 101. There are four facilitators for Trans 101 as of Spring 2019. There have been an estimated 16 trainings of Trans 101 held as of Jan 2019. An extensive amount of information about the specifics of the training is located on the website."
LGBT+	Rising Up	"Rising Up helps students become aware of triggering situations and challenges and how to practice resilience skills to overcome these. Up allows access to other LGBTQIA students and staff who want to better their resilience skills in order to improve their mental health. At the end of the semester training weekly meetings, it is hopeful that the students will understand how to use their skills and who to go to for support on campus to improve their mental health. The group is based on The Queer and Transgender Resilience Workbook by Dr. Anneliese Singh, a practical and compassionate guide to cultivating skills that build resilience. Each group has typically no more than 10 students and each student receives a free copy of the workbook to work through over the course of the semester. Rising Up helps teach students how to challenge negative messages, handle stress, or maintain healthy habits and routines when faced with difficult situations. "
Financially Insecure	Campus Closet	"Campus Closet is a program that lends appropriate clothing to those who are prospective hires without proper business attire. This allows students to look professional and be judged on the content of their character, not their financial wellness. The Campus Closet receives donations throughout the year and is typically announced as being open before career fairs. Outside of those times, students may email Campus Closet to receive necessary attire."
Financially Insecure	Klemis Kitchen	"Klemis Kitchen is Georgia Techs campus food pantry. Volunteers work with the organization Campus Kitchens to prepare individual meals from campus dining halls that would otherwise go to waste and use it to support students at Georgia Tech. Access to Klemis Kitchen requires a meeting with the program coordinator that can be set up with an email from the affected party or a referral from a friend on their behalf. The food pantry itself is located in a discrete area of campus where people who utilize it are unlikely to be noticed. Of course, the location is not made publicly available and students are never identified for using the program."
Financially Insecure	Dean Griffin Hip Pocket Fund	The office of the Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students offers emergency loans through the Dean Griffin Hip Pocket Fund. These loans are interest free and can be used for academic or personal matters. A submission form must be completed and a meeting with personnel in the Office of the Dean of Students is required. Loans are given on a case by case basis.